_Android app, that watches your every step_

Pedometer is an application for Android phones.

h2. Features

It counts your steps by using the sensors in the phone.

It calculates the pace (steps per minute), and can help you maintain a desired pace by speaking to you.

h2. Changelog

New in v1.4 (2010-12-25):
* Using built-in TTS
* Fix binding to the service
* Layout extends to the screen, supports various screen sizes
* Adjust default sensitivity, add more options
* Fix division by 0 bug

New in v1.3 (2010-04-25):
* option for keeping screen always on
* fixed TTS auto installation
* fixed multiple activity starts

New in v1.2 (2010-04-25):
* fixed to work on new phones (tested on HTC Desire)

New in v1.1 (2009-06-14):
* calculate distance and speed based on user's step length
* calculate approx. calories burned based on step length & body weight
* repeated voice notifications about any displayed value
* pause and resume the service
* reset all values

h2. Installation

* using the Market application on your phone or
* by downloading the "Pedometer.apk":http://pedometer.googlecode.com/files/Pedometer-1.4.apk file and issuing @adb install Pedometer.apk@

h2. FAQ

Question: How did you arrived at the formula for the step detection?
Answer: It's completely a result of experimentation. I know this is lame, but this was a weekend hack I made just for myself.

Question: How does the step detection algorithm work?
Answer: Basically, it aggregates the sensor values, finds the maximum and minimum, and if the difference is bigger than a value (which depends on the sensitivity setting) then it counts it as a step. There's is some additional optimization, which I arrived to through experimentation.

Question: In some other place, it says it's licensed under GPL, but here it says "No restrictions"; which one is true?
Answer: The one attached to the source code applies, so for this version "No restrictions". Previously it was under GPL, so some forks may still be under GPL.

h2. License

No restrictions. You are free to do anything with the source code.

h2. Links

"Pedometer at Google Code":http://code.google.com/p/pedometer/ - screenshots, issue tracker
"Comments from Market (Cyrket)":http://www.cyrket.com/package/name.bagi.levente.pedometer

